an Israeli official says prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has disbanded the war cabinet which was
responsible for key decisions relating to
the Israel Hamas War it was formed in the
days after the October 7th Hamas attacks the
decision comes after opposition leader Benny
gance withdrew from the body last week
meanwhile Israel's military announced a
daily tactical pause along a specific route and
specific times to allow for humanitarian Aid
into Gaza the IDF later clarified that it's
still its troops are still fighting in Rafa
and parts of Gaza CNN's Paula hanock is joining
us now from Southern Israel Paula let's start
with uh Benjamin netanyahu's decision to
disband his War cabinet what's behind that
decision well am in the war cabinet there were
always three men who are basically making the
decisions which was the Prime Minister the defense
minister and the opposition leader Benny Gant now
of course since Gant has resigned saying uh he's
in protest of the fact there's no uh plan to get
the hostages out no day after plan uh for Gaza
and another plan to to get people back to Northern
Israel as well who've been evacuated it is now
effectively a twers war cabinet so what he has
done is he's disbanded that and he has said
according to an official in his office that
the decisions when it comes to the war in Gaza
will be made on a uh a security cabinet basis
which is uh a wider cabinet basis uh also saying
that or experts are saying that this kind of
avoids the uh the pressure that was coming from
the far right of his Coalition uh some of those
far right elements wanted to be part of the war
cabinet uh so by disbanding it potentially he
has uh uh got rid of that problem as well he
doesn't have to accept or reject them because
he does have a balancing act when it comes
to his Coalition at this point uh but they
do say within the prime minister's office this
won't make a difference to actually making the
decisions on the uh the war in Gaza and if they
have to they will have smaller groups to decide
tactical changes amra and regarding that tactical
pause uh if there is still fighting going on in
Rafa and parts of Gaza as the IDF says is this
tactical pause in effect to allow humanitarian Aid
in so this is a pause that comes from the
Kem Shalom Crossing where we just were
and it goes into Gaza and then up the salahadin
road which is effectively the the north south Road
uh that runs through Gaza now from the idf's point
of view they say that they are securing that road
so it will be safe for uh in uh International Aid
organizations to distribute AIDS which they say is
stuck on the Gaza side uh of the Kem Shalom border
they say there's more than a thousand trucks that
are there currently but we've spoken to some of
those Aid groups including the UN groups in Gaza
uh and they say that sometimes it is simply too
dangerous for them to be able to get to that
cross in and pick up the aid it's not just the
fighting that they're concerned about it's also
the sense of of lawlessness uh in Gaza there is
a lot of looting uh they say it's very dangerous
for them to be able to try and distribute the
aid I did ask the IDF spokesperson if there
would be some kind of military uh escort with uh
these uh these trucks to try and get the aid in
and that was uh not answered so at this point
it doesn't appear that that would be the case
we've also heard from the Gaza media office
saying uh that as far as they're concerned
there's been no tactical pause uh so they believe
that it is Israeli lies in their uh words now the
IDF has been quite clear that the fighting will
continue it will continue in Rafa which is very
close to where this uh this route is uh for the
Tactical pause uh as they will be continuing uh
what they have been doing since last month Amar
all right Paula hanock watching this for us from
Southern Israel thank you Paula meanwhile a
US Special Envoy arrives in Israel Monday as
tensions escalate on Israel's northern border
with Lebanon CNN's Ben Weedman is joining us
now live from Beirut uh Ben you and officials
are warning that there is a very real danger
of miscalculation escalating the conflict along
uh the Israel and lebanon's Border what have you
learned well what we've been seen is that
certainly in the last few weeks uh things
on the border have gotten much hotter in terms
of the daily back and forth between hisbah and
Israel although I must add that it's a currently
a Muslim holiday and yesterday on the at least
from hisbah side they didn't fire anything at
the Israelis as far as we can tell but this
Envoy Amos Hawkin who's the senior energy
adviser at the White House and he's really
the point man in dealing with the sort of the
Lebanon on Israel file for the United States
he's in Israel now we assume although it has
not been officially announced that he's going
to be coming uh to Beirut in the coming days
nonetheless what is obvious certainly from
statements made by senior Israeli officials
including prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
and the signs we're getting from hisbah is
that both sides are primed for escalation
every day the message goes out from South
Lebanon in slick propaganda videos accompanied
by a stirring soundtrack hisbah is ready
to go from daily skirmishes to full scale
war with Israel Meed in what appears to be
an unwinable war in Gaza Israel has vowed
to turn its military might on Hezbollah
earlier this month Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu visited the Border saying
we are prepared for very strong action in the
north but the Iranian back group is by far the
most formidable battle hardened foe Israel has
faced on its borders since the 1973 October
war after its guillas forced Israel to pull
out of South Lebanon 24 years ago in 2006
Hezbollah fought Israel to a standstill
although the war left parts of Beirut and much
of Southern Lebanon in Ruins retired Lebanese
Army Brigadier General elas Hana knows the
militant Group Well hasbalah is an exclusive
Club well disciplined monitored and they have
which is the most important issue a charismatic
leader since October Israeli strikes
have killed more than 300 hisbah Fighters
including last week high ranking
Commander Talib Abdullah given a
hero's farewell in Beirut at the funeral
senior Hezbollah leader Hashim safadin
warned we will increase our operations
in intensity and force in quantity and
quality analysts believe Iran has provided
Hezbollah with an arsenal of sophisticated
long range missiles capable of reaching Tel Aviv
and Beyond until now Hezbollah has mostly limited
its strikes to military targets along the rugged
mountainous Frontier hitting Israel's extensive
network of surveillance posts It also says
it is taken out an Iron Dome battery the
backbone of Israel's missile defenses and has used
ground to- a missiles to shoot down three top of
the line Hermes 900 drones in the process forcing
tens of thousands of Israelis to flee their homes
in the north healah is learning faster than Israel
can adapt says Hanah you know they are learning
it's like learning process it's like trial and
error so as far as you go in time you are seeing
more intensity more combined use of weapon and
then more in depths and More in Effectiveness
against the Israelis and what is the problem
that the Israeli have no Pro have no answer
for that since October Israel has bolstered
its forces on the border and held exercises
to prepare for war Hezbollah is also Ready
for War a war that is just one miscalculation
away now Mr Hawkin is probably trying to convince
Vin the Israelis now is not a good time given the
situation in Gaza to jump into a war with
Lebanon and of course in Lebanon given H
hezbollah's strength and abilities to strike well
inside Israel the price for Israel would be very
high but prime minister Netanyahu is under
intense pressure from the public in Israel
to allow those people who fled the north to go
back home so they're really in a bind now the
one solution and what has been seen before is
that in late November of last year when there
was an 8 day halt in the fighting in Gaza and
there was a release of hostages in exchange for
Palestinian prisoners and detainees the Border
along between Lebanon and Israel was quiet hisb
has made it clear if the fighting stops in
Gaza the Border will be quiet so probably a
ceasefire is the best solution all around amra
Ben Weedman and beay for us thank you so much